*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 53832 ***

    Price, 25 Cents


    A Strike
    in Santa Land

    A PLAY IN ONE ACT

    By
    EFFA E. PRESTON

    [Illustration]


    PAINE PUBLISHING CO.
    DAYTON, OHIO




_Song Specialties for Your Entertainments_


Teachers are discovering that no matter how much novelty there is in
their entertainment, how well it is arranged, how thoroughly drilled,
if they want to hold the active interest of the audience they must use
the best of songs. The songs must be real novelties. The words must be
interesting as well as decidedly clever. The music must be catchy and
abounding in rich melody. With these things in mind we have prepared
this list of superior song novelties for our patrons. All are in
regular sheet music form.

    =_Price, 35 cents each; 5 for $1.25_=


WELCOME SONGS

    We’ve Just Arrived from Bashful Town.
    We Hope You’ve Brought Your Smiles Along.
    Come and Partake of Our Welcome Cake.
    We’re Very Glad to See You Here.
    With Quaking Hearts We Welcome You.


CLOSING SONGS

    Mr. Sun and Mrs. Moon.
    Now, Aren’t You Glad You Came?
    We Do Not Like to Say Goodbye.
    We’ll Now Have to Say Goodbye.


_Paine Publishing Co., Dayton, Ohio_




    A Strike in Santa Land

    _A Play in One Act_


    BY
    EFFA E. PRESTON


    PAINE PUBLISHING COMPANY
    DAYTON, OHIO




A Strike in Santa Land

CHARACTER AND COSTUMES


    SANTA CLAUS—Regulation costume.

    MRS. SANTA CLAUS—Girl in dark dress, white apron and
    cap, wears spectacles.

    BROWNIE—Small boy in brown cambric suit cut like
    pajamas.

    TIN SOLDIERS—Two small boys dressed in soldier suits,
    one dressed as private—boy scout suit—the other as a
    general. Sew gold lace, etc., on scout suit.

    BOOKS—Five girls dressed in white, wearing from string
    about neck a huge black poster on which, in bright
    letters, is name of book represented.

    JUMPING JACK—Boy in blue or red suit, long stick
    fastened to back, string hanging from it. He moves in a
    very jerky fashion.

    TOP—Small boy or girl, plump, in bright-colored dress,
    with gay stripes running around it. Stripes made by
    sewing on strips of bright-colored cloth.

    DOLL—Pretty little girl beautifully dressed. Moves in
    stiff fashion, talks mechanically.

    FOUNTAIN PEN—Tall boy dressed in black cambric suit cut
    straight from neck to feet, gold band represented by
    strip of yellow cloth sewed around suit. A pen point
    cut from black or yellow cardboard is fastened at back
    of neck.

    TREE—Boy or girl in green suit trimmed with branches of
    evergreen.

    TIME OF PLAYING—About twenty minutes.


    COPYRIGHT, 1922, BY
    L. M. PAINE




A Strike in Santa Land


    STAGE represents a room in SANTA’S house. Packages
    well tied up are piled in the back of the stage. SANTA
    appears ready to start on his annual journey.

SANTA: My, I’m tired. I’m glad Christmas comes but once a year or I
never could stand the excitement.

MRS. SANTA [_entering_]: SANTA, it’s almost time to start.

SANTA: Are the reindeer ready and is everything packed?

MRS. SANTA: Yes, I think so.

SANTA: I’ve tried trains and autos and airships but none of them suit
me like my faithful old reindeer. I don’t have to steer them up the
chimneys. They know just where to go.

BROWNIE [_entering_]: Well, SANTA, everything is ready for your trip
but I have some unpleasant news for you.

SANTA: Unpleasant news—that’s strange. Here in Santa-land we never hear
unpleasant things for they never happen. What is it JACK-OF ALL-TRADES?

BROWNIE: Some of the very nicest toys we have made this whole year
refuse to be packed. They say they will not leave Santa-land and go to
earth.

SANTA: Well! Well! Well! What do you think of that, Mother?

MRS. SANTA: SANTA, be firm. You’re entirely too easy with them. They’ll
all be wanting to stay next year if you don’t make these toys go.

SANTA: Of course, there are toys enough without these.

BROWNIE: You always find some extra children you didn’t know about.

MRS. SANTA: Certainly you do, BROWNIE, send the naughty toys in one at
a time and we will hear what they have to say. Now, SANTA, be firm. You
are so kind hearted if a doll cries you’ll let her have her way.

SANTA: Now, MOTHER, you’re as bad as I am.

    _BROWNIE goes out and two tin soldiers enter, walking
    stiffly and moving exactly together. They salute as
    they come to a standstill._

SANTA: What’s this I hear? Why aren’t you packed?

FIRST SOLDIER: I don’t want to be given to any child. Suppose I should
not be properly treated. A careless boy might not treat me according to
my rank. I am a general—suppose a private soldier was placed in front
of me. Suppose he was given the best place in our box. I never could
stand that. What a fate for a General.

SECOND SOLDIER: SANTA CLAUS, I am a private soldier and I am proud
of it. The Brownie who made me did a fine job. Just see how well my
uniform fits. I’m just as proud as the General. I will not associate
with soldiers I have to salute all the time and wait on. If I got put
in the box with a General I wouldn’t like it any more than he would.
Children are very careless. Something unpleasant might easily happen. I
think it best for me to stay right here. The Brownies can use me as a
pattern next Christmas.

SANTA: This is very strange. I never dreamed that you toys didn’t get
on perfectly well. After this I’ll put all the officers in one box and
all the common soldiers in another.

_BROWNIE brings in five girls who represent books. They sing_—

    _Song—Air_: MY BONNIE

FIRST BOOK:

    WE’RE BOOKS filled with stories and pictures.
      We want to stay spotless and clean.
    And not become dog eared and dirty
      Like most story books you have seen.

_Chorus_:

    We want to stay
    Right here in Santa Claus Land, we do.
    We want to stay
    Right here in Santa Claus Land.

SECOND BOOK:

    WE’LL not be marked up by bad children—
      Our pages all mislaid and worn.
    All sticky with jelly and candy,
      Our beautiful pictures all torn.

FIRST BOOK: I’m Anderson’s Fairy Tales. I have the loveliest stories in
me—all the Ugly Duckling and the Shoes that Danced, and the poor little
Match Girl.

SECOND BOOK: I’m the Just-So Stories. Oh, how funny I am. I tell about
how the Elephant got his trunk, how the Camel got his hump, and about
man’s first friend, the dog.

THIRD BOOK: I am Alice in Wonderland. You’ll just love Alice. Everybody
does. The White Rabbit is the sweetest thing.

FOURTH BOOK: I tell about Robinson Crusoe. I’m awfully exciting. A boy
would like me for Christmas but he won’t get me.

FIFTH BOOK: I’m Little Women—with a lovely binding and lots of
pictures. The little girls’ grandmothers read and liked me for I am a
book that never gets old. I have earned a vacation so I shall stay home
this Christmas.

SANTA: Dear me. This is very annoying.

MRS. SANTA: Be firm. Be firm.

    _BROWNIE brings in a JUMPING JACK._

JUMPING-JACK: SANTA, I’m sorry to seem fussy but I really can’t go out
this year. How would you like to be capering like this [_jerks about_]
every time someone pulled a string. Folks think a JUMPING-JACK’S arms
and legs never get tired but I want to tell you they do.

SANTA _and_ MRS. SANTA [_together_]: Poor thing.

    _BROWNIE brings in TOP._

TOP [_spinning round and round_]: SANTA, I’m so dizzy my head will fly
off. After I was made all the Brownies in the workshop kept spinning
me just because I have such a sweet hum. If I have to be put on a
Christmas tree and be played with all day tomorrow I shall spin myself
to death. I expect to stay right here, SANTA.

MRS. SANTA: But it isn’t hard work to spin.

TOP: You just try it for a day, dear MRS. SANTA.

_BROWNIE brings in beautiful doll._

DOLL: I suppose you’re cross, SANTA, but I can’t help it. I have heard
the most terrible stories about the way dolls are treated by careless
little girls. They have their lovely curls torn off and their eyes
are poked in by little girl’s fingers. They are left outdoors in the
sun and rain and that spoils the complexion. It took two days to make
my complexion and I will not have it spoiled. Think of having this
lovely dress made dirty by sticky fingers. You and MRS. SANTA will be
lonesome. You really need me any way. I have named myself since I do
not intend that any child shall have a chance to name me.

BROWNIE: What is your name?

DOLL: It is beautiful. GWENDOLYN GERALDINE GENEVIEVE ARABELLA. Isn’t
that a delightful name?

BROWNIE: I shall call you JERRY for short. I can’t remember all that
list.

DOLL: JACK-OF ALL-TRADES, you’ll address me by my proper name or not at
all.

SANTA: Don’t quarrel. He won’t call you anything for you won’t be here.
[_DOLL cries._]

    _BROWNIE brings in FOUNTAIN PEN._

PEN: SANTA, I’m entirely too smart to give away. I can write wonderful
things.

SANTA: What have you written?

PEN: I’ll say my last poem for you. I just wrote it on my box lid. It
is what a little boy said at a Christmas entertainment and it’s about
you.

MRS. SANTA: Say it for us, PEN.

PEN [_Recites_]:

    LAST Christmas eve, at twelve o’clock—
      I know ’twas very shocking—
    I tried to see dear SANTA CLAUS,
      The while he filled my stocking.

    I hid within the chimney nook
      And chuckled with elation
    To think how SANTA’D be surprised
      And filled with consternation.

    But, later, SANTA was amused,
      ’Twas he who did the peeping.
    I never saw how SANTA looked,
      Alas, he found me sleeping.

SANTA: Ha! Ha! They never catch old SANTA napping. Every year some
child tries to see me fill his stocking but it’s no use. It can’t be
done.

PEN: You can see for yourself, SANTA, that you need some one like
me with you all the time. If I can write verses like that think how
beautifully I could answer the millions of letters you get every year
from the children all over the world. You need me SANTA. Don’t think of
sending me away.

SANTA: Well, PEN I’ve answered letters without you for a great many
years, but perhaps you are right.

MRS. SANTA: SANTA, be firm, be firm.

    _BROWNIE brings in CHRISTMAS TREE, crying._

TREE: I won’t be trimmed. I won’t be trimmed. I don’t want things hung
on me. I hate candles. I don’t want tinsel strung over my branches.
Those silly toys will be stuck all over me. I won’t be a CHRISTMAS
TREE, so there.

ALL THE TOYS: We’re not going away. Don’t worry. We don’t expect to be
hung on any tree.

SANTA: You poor little tree—stop crying. You and the TOYS may stay with
me till next year.

TREE _and_ TOYS: Oh, thank you, SANTA. You are a dear.

MRS. SANTA: There, I knew he wouldn’t be firm. He spoils them all.

_TREE and TOYS retire to rear of stage and appear to talk together._

    _Enter BROWNIE._

BROWNIE: Oh, SANTA, I have just received a terrible message on the
wireless from a little settlement in Alaska.

SANTA: What is it? What is it?

BROWNIE: The message was sent by your helper, FLEET-FOOT. He learned
just an hour ago that there is a family living in the little settlement
that was not counted when he made his census. There are two children—a
boy and a girl, both very small.

MRS. SANTA: Poor little things, and no presents left for them.

SANTA: No, I must start in five minutes. There’s no time to make
anything for them now.

BROWNIE: There’s nothing left in the workshop. I just looked. It’s a
shame. FLEET-FOOT says they are such nice children.

    _During all this conversation the TREE and the TOYS have
        been listening very carefully. They come forward._

TREE: How many children, did you say?

BROWNIE: Two—very nice ones.

SOLDIERS [_together_]: Do you think they could tell a General from a
private?

DOLL: Does the little girl have clean hands?

PEN: I suppose the parents might appreciate my poetry.

TOP: Nights are long in Alaska. They would spin me only in the daytime
I suppose.

JUMPING-JACK: One reason why I wanted to stay here was because of the
climate. It’s cold in Alaska, too, isn’t it SANTA?

SANTA: Yes, my child, yes.

BOOKS [_together_]: You think we ought to go, don’t you, SANTA?

SANTA: My dear TOYS, I leave it to your consciences. Do you like to
think of those two little children way up in Alaska doing without any
Christmas gifts because you were selfish?

TOYS _and_ TREE [_together_]: Oh, SANTA, you always get us to do just
what you want us to anyway.

TREE: Come on, folks, we might as well go in and be packed. There’s
nothing else to do.

TOYS: Yes, come on.

MRS. SANTA: I’m so glad Santa was firm.

SANTA: Before we go let’s sing one song together—a good old Christmas
song.

TREE _and_ TOYS: All right.

ALL sing—

_Air_: SLEEP, BABY, SLEEP

    1—Blow, cold winds, blow
       Across the drifting snow.
       The Christmas bells chime sweet and clear
       Like fairy music to the ear,
       Blow, cold winds, blow.

    2—Sing, gayly sing
       Make all the echoes ring.
       Since Christmas comes but once a year
       We’ll celebrate with right good cheer,
       Sing, gayly sing.

    3—Glow, hearth fires, glow.
       The Christmas lights are low.
       The Yule log’s almost burned away—
       At dawn the ashes will be gray.
       Glow, hearth fires, glow.

    CURTAIN




Entertainments for All Occasions


_Special Day Entertainments_

  =BEST CHRISTMAS PANTOMIMES=—Irish                       $0.40
  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS DIALOGUES AND PLAYS=—Irish              .40
  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS ENTERTAINMENTS=—Irish                   .40
  =CHRISTMAS AT McCARTHYS’=—Guptill                         .25
  =CHRISTMAS AT PUMPKIN HOLLER=—Guptill                     .25
  =CHRISTMAS EVE AT MULLIGAN’S=—Irish                       .25
  =CHRISTMAS SPEAKIN’ AT SKAGGS’ SKULE=—Irish               .25
  =IN A TOY SHOP=—Preston                                   .25
  =THE PRIMARY CHRISTMAS BOOK=—Irish                        .40
  =PUMPKIN PIE PETER=—Irish                                 .25
  =THE REUNION AT PINE KNOT RANCH=—Irish                    .25
  =SNOWBOUND FOR CHRISTMAS=—Preston                         .25
  =A STRIKE IN SANTA LAND=—Preston                          .25
  =A THANKSGIVING CONSPIRACY=—Irish                         .25
  =A THANKSGIVING DREAM=—Preston                            .25
  =A TOPSY-TURVY CHRISTMAS=—Guptill                         .25


_Dialogues and Children’s Plays_

  =ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR=—Wilbur                            $0.25
  =DOLLS ON DRESS PARADE=—Preston                            .25
  =A PARTY IN MOTHER GOOSE LAND=—Preston                     .25
  =SNAPPY HUMOROUS DIALOGUES=—Irish                          .40


_Recitations and Pantomimes_

  =CATCHY PRIMARY RECITATIONS=—Irish                        $0.30
  =OLD TIME SONGS PANTOMIMED=—Irish                           .40


_Plays_

  =THE DEAREST THING IN BOOTS=—MacKenzie                           $0.25
  =THE GREAT CHICKEN STEALING CASE OF EBENEZER COUNTY=—Richardson    .25
  =THE GREAT WHISKEY STEALING CASE=—Richardson                       .25
  =MISS JANIE; OR, THE CURTAILED COURTSHIP=—Bonham                   .25
  =THAT AWFUL LETTER=—MacKenzie                                      .25
  =THE UNEXPECTED GUEST=—MacKenzie                                   .25


_Monologues_

  =AS OUR WASHWOMAN SEES IT=—MacKenzie                    $0.25
  =ASK OUIJA=—MacKenzie                                     .25
  =THE COUNTRY COUSIN SPEAKS HER MIND=—MacKenzie            .25
  =GLADYS REVIEWS THE DANCE=—MacKenzie                      .25
  =I’M ENGAGED=—MacKenzie                                   .25
  =SHE SAYS SHE STUDIES=—MacKenzie                          .25
  =SUSAN GETS READY FOR CHURCH=—MacKenzie                   .25


  =PAINE PUBLISHING CO.=     =Dayton, Ohio=




_Entertainments for Christmas_



  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS ENTERTAINMENTS=    =By Marie Irish=

For children of all grades. Contents: 50 recitations, 8 monologues, 11
plays and dialogues, 5 drills and marches, 8 tableaux, 4 pantomimes, 8
pantomimed carols, 8 songs, etc. =Price, 40 cents.=


  =THE PRIMARY CHRISTMAS BOOK=    =By Marie Irish=

For children under ten years of age. Contents: 68 recitations, 12
exercises, 7 songs, 6 drills, 12 dialogues and plays, 9 pantomimes.
=Price, 40 cents.=


  =BEST CHRISTMAS PANTOMIMES=    =By Marie Irish=

Twelve pantomimes, each accompanied by complete words, directions and
music. Some are serious and some are in a lighter vein. =Price, 40
cents.=


  =CHOICE CHRISTMAS DIALOGUES AND PLAYS=    =By Marie Irish=

Ten dialogues for Primary Grades, 10 dialogues for Intermediate Grades
and 8 plays for Grammar Grades. =Price, 40 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS AT McCARTHYS’=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

Brimful of fun and Christmas spirit. For any number of young folks and
children. Time, 30 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS AT PUMPKIN’ HOLLER=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

The old-fashioned school is rehearsing for the Christmas entertainment.
Funny from beginning to end. Time, 30 minutes. For any number of
children. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS EVE AT MULLIGAN’S By Marie Irish=

For all grades. 4 males, 5 females. Time, 30 minutes. A most unusual
play. Plenty of wit and humor as well as more serious episodes. Sure to
be a success. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =CHRISTMAS SPEAKIN’ AT SKAGGS’ SKULE=    =By Marie Irish=

A back woods school entertainment is featured. Easy to prepare and
plenty of fun. For 6 boys and 8 girls. Time, 30 minutes. =Price, 25
cents.=


  =IN A TOY SHOP=    =By Effa E. Preston=

In rhyme. For 12 or more small children. A clever little play that will
please. Time, 20 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =THE REUNION AT PINE KNOT RANCH=    =By Marie Irish=

For upper grades. 5 males and 6 females. Time, 30 minutes. Plenty of
fun and a great surprise. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =SNOWBOUND FOR CHRISTMAS=    =By Marie Irish=

For 4 boys and 4 girls. For mixed grades. Time, 25 minutes. The older
children play Santa Claus for the younger ones. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =A STRIKE IN SANTA LAND=    =By Effa E. Preston=

In rhyme. 8 boys, 7 girls. Time, 20 minutes. Very easy but effective.
=Price, 25 cents.=


  =A TOPSY-TURVY CHRISTMAS=    =By Elizabeth F. Guptill=

Humorous. For any number of children under fourteen years of age. Time,
30 minutes. =Price, 25 cents.=


  =PAINE PUBLISHING CO.=     =Dayton, Ohio=

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

Page 4, “standstll” changed to “a standstill” (to a standstill)

Page 10, “hearthfires” changed to “hearth fires” to match first usage
in verse.





End of Project Gutenberg's A Strike in Santa Land, by Effa E. Preston

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 53832 ***
